Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today I’m
going to explain a Norwegian dark
fantasy film called “Trollhunter,” Spoilers
ahead! Watch out and take care!
At the beginning of the movie, three Norwegian
friends, namely; Thomas, Johanna, and Kalle,
are in a car. They study in the Volda University
College and are out to make a documentary
about recent bear attacks happening
in the town as a college project.
Kalle is the cameraman responsible for shooting
all the footage of their study. The three drive to
the site where a bear’s dead body has been found
and interview local hunters. Interestingly, all
the hunters have the same comment; they claim that
the bear tracks look odd and made up and assume
that the head of the Norwegian Wildlife Board,
Finn Haugen, is hiding something. The hunters
also share their mutual hatred for a fellow hunter
named Hans, who all of them are suspicious of.
The comments make the student’s documentary
more interesting, so they decide to do more
research on Hans. They find out that Hans lives in
a campground and interview his neighbor. According
to the neighbor, Hans stays out most of the night
and doesn’t return till sunrise. The group waits
for him to return home that day. When they finally
meet him, they ask for permission to be with him
on one of his night adventures. However, Hans
strictly denies the idea and asks them to go
away. The trio notices marks from a potential
bear attack on Hans’s car and films it. They
are adamant about finding what Hans does at
night, so they wait in their car nearby his
van until it gets dark. At night, Hans gets into
his car and drives away as the group follows him.
They drive behind his car the whole night and
see him board a ferry the next day. The group
decides to get on the ferry too. When they reach
the destination, they again follow him to a hotel.
Finally, at night, they see him
get into his car and drive away.
The trio knows this is their chance to find out
what he is doing, so they follow him closely.
However, they lose him after reaching a gate that
says the further entrance is prohibited. But the
sign doesn’t stop the group as they open the gate
and go inside, knowing that Hans is there too.
They reach a dark and quiet jungle and
get out of the car to look for the hunter.
The strangely quiet jungle unsettles the group,
but they do not stop the pursuit. All of a sudden,
a loud screech is heard, and a bright light
flashes nearby. The group freezes in their tracks,
too scared to go check what it is. Just then,
a terrified Hans approaches them hastily
and asks them to run away. The group starts to run
without questioning him. Some unknown entity is
following them; however, the college students do
not know what. The unknown entity almost catches
Thomas and inures him in the process, but the
group manages to run away in Hans’s car.
Hans is quiet throughout the journey but
surprisingly accepts when the group asks to join
him for a hunt. He then explains that the entity
that followed them earlier is a mythological
creature from the Scandinavian folklore
called Trolls. Trolls live in isolated rocks,
mountains, or caves. Hans describes them as ugly
and slow-witted creatures. They always come out
at night because the light turns them into rocks.
The Trolls are anti-Christianity and can smell the
blood of people who believe in Christianity from
afar. Hans finally confesses that he isn’t a bear
hunter but a Troll hunter. There is a massive
light mounted on his car, which he uses to turn
the Trolls into stone and kill them. The group
doesn't believe Hans’s story but agrees to go
with him on an adventure. The following night,
Hans takes the group on a Troll hunt with him.
Before leaving, he makes them rub Troll’s smell
on their body so the Trolls wouldn’t smell humans.
Hans carries a flashgun that shoots out forceful
UV rays, and they finally make their way towards
the jungle. Later, Hans gets a call from someone
who asks him to get a Troll’s blood sample.
After walking for a while, he asks the group to
stop at a place. He plans to bring out the Tolls
from their hidings, so he leaves the group
and goes further into the woods alone.
As the trio waits for Hans to return, they start
believing that Hans was just making up stories.
But suddenly, a loud growl is heard. The trees
start shaking, and a massive three-headed creature
emerges from between them. The group is terrified
and starts running towards their car while the
Troll pursues them. They finally reach the car,
but the Troll arrives there while following their
smell. Thankfully, Hans is ready for the creature
and flashes it with the light mounted on his car.
The creature immediately turns into
stone, surprising the group. Thomas,
Johanna, and Kalle are excited to have found
such a brilliant being and believe that they
will be famous overnight because of the camera
footage. Hans, however, is mad at the group for
not telling him that they are the followers of
Christianity. That is why the Troll could smell
and follow them. However, the trio insists
that none of them follow Christianity.
Hans finally reveals that he doesn’t get paid
enough for the hunts and doesn’t want to put
his life in danger anymore. He wants to expose
the truth about Trolls to the world, and that
is why he agreed to bring them here. The following
morning, the head of the Norwegian Wildlife Board,
Finn, arrives at the scene. The group gets to know
that Finn actually works for the Troll Security
Service (TSS). The Norwegian government doesn't
want the world to know about the creature's
existence, so they have formed a secret committee,
TSS, to solve any problems related to Trolls.
Hans is an official Troll hunter who has been
appointed to kill Trolls who come close to humans.
Hence, to hide the deaths of the Trolls,
they cover it with bear attack stories.
Every news about the bear’s attack till now
has been a cover-up for some Trolls’ death.
Hans reveals that for the past few weeks,
Trolls have been more aggressive than usual,
and the TSS wants to find out about the reason.
That is why they asked to collect a Troll’s blood
sample last night, but Hans was unsuccessful.
So, he wants to go for a hunt again today.
Finn realizes that the students are filming
the whole interaction and warns them that they
will not be allowed to keep the footage. But
the warning doesn’t stop the trio. At night,
they go to a different location to hunt the
creature. When they reach there, Hans uses a sheep
as bait to attract the Trolls. The idea works, and
after a while, a different kind of Troll appears
and starts devouring the sheep. Hans dresses up in
a metal suit and gets a syringe. He then bravely
approaches the creature to try to get his blood
samples. Hans manages to get the blood but angers
the Troll in the process. It attacks Hans and
easily overpowers him. It even tries to eat the
man, but the metallic suit resists it. Hans plays
dead, making the Troll leave. The trio approaches
him and helps him up. Hans quickly follows the
Troll and kills him by flashing his light.
The next day, they take the blood samples to the
lab to get them tested and find out they will get
the result after some days. The group then leaves
for another mission together. They notice several
fallen trees and figure it is the work of a Troll.
They follow the Troll’s footsteps and reach an
abandoned mine. But before they can exit the mine,
a family of Trolls enters, blocking their way.
The group is beyond terrified, especially the
cameraman Kalle, who is shivering in fear. He
confesses that he believes in Christianity, making
the group more nervous. Meanwhile, the Trolls get
Kalle’s smell and attack the group. They use
the UV lights to somehow get out of the mine,
but Kalle is dragged in by the creatures. Thomas
and Johanna sit down on the ground, not able to
process their friend’s death. They take his broken
camera and go back to Hans’s trailer. After some
days, they hire a new Muslim cameraman, not sure
how the creature will react to her smell.
Finn calls Hans again, this time to assign
him a task to kill the most dangerous Troll
of them all called the Jotnar, who is easily
50–100 meters tall. Hans knows this Troll will be
the hardest to kill, so he upgrades his van with
sharp metals to keep it away. The group travels
to the mountains to look for the Troll. On their
pursuit, they get a call from the lab who reveals
that the Trolls have rabies. That is why they
had been overly aggressive over the past month.
The group remembers that Thomas was bitten
when he first encountered the Troll, so they
fear he might have rabies too. Thomas claims he
will get tested once they get back. Just then,
they see the Jotnar Troll making its way towards
their van. Unfortunately, the van’s mounted lights
stop working right then. Hans thinks of a
plan and starts singing a Christian hymn,
confusing the Troll and attracting it towards
him. They take this opportunity to drive away.
After a while, Hans manages to fix the lights.
They drive from right under the Troll’s leg and
finally manage to flash it with the lights. The
Troll turns into stone and crumbles to the ground,
and the group is relieved. Thomas keeps the hard
drive with the footage of the documentary with
him. Just then, Finn and his men arrive and try
snatching the camera and the hard drive from them.
Thomas frantically snatches them both and runs
away, leaving his friends behind. After a while,
he reaches a road and sees a truck driving his
way. The scene cuts as the screen goes black.
An epilogue tells us that no one has ever
heard from the students after the incident,
but we can assume that someone from the truck
took the footage from Thomas and leaked them to
the press. With no options left, Norway's prime
minister confesses about the Trolls’ existence
in a press meeting. At the end of the movie,
the whole world knows about the Trolls.
Subscribe for more videos like
this, turn on notifications,
and leave a like to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.